1. VCS?
    version control system as a system that keeps all record of changes made on specific project and also helps us to ensure all the developer in a team working on same projwct or not. 
it gives confidents to the devloper to fix bug and make any changes. if anything goes wrong then previous version will be restore at anytime.
2. what is git?
    Git is opensource distributed version control system and source code management (scm) system with an insistence to control small and large projects with speed and efficiency.
The main objectives of Git:
  Speed
  Data integrity
  Support for distributed 
  Non-linear workflow. 
what is github?
  github is the git hosting remote repository used for software devlopment. It helps us to work on projects and collaborate with other developers at any moment from anywhere.
git comments?
git init
>> first comment in git 
>> its used to initiate the git repository
----------
git add
git add used to add the untracted files ws(workstation) into staging area
---------
git status
this comment used to view our repository status
>> about untracted files, traked files, commited files
-------------
git log
this comment used show how many commits are done earlier
it will give all information about earlier commit what we done
------------
git config
The Git config command is a command used to check the configuration for your git installation and also maintains the git looks and functions.
Also useful while Installing the email and name of the creator.
Command used: $git config
---------
git commit
comment  used to commit the files to staging area into local repo
git commit -m "commit massage"
--------------
git push?
comment used to push the files to local repo into remote repo (our github repostory)
>> git push
>> git remote orgin 
-------------
git clone
comment used to clone our perticular remote github repo into local repo (our local machine)
git clone < github id >
----------------
git pull
Git pull command will retrieve all the information on new changes in the content from the remote repository to the local repository by merging with the existing branch. 
Command: git pull .
Git pull command’s main function is to fetch as well as merge with the new modifications.
Repository data is updated in the local repository as well as the remote repository. 
---------------
git annodate
    comment used to to track each line of the file based on the commit information
>> git annodate basic.py
>>> git annodate -L 1, 3 basic.py (1>> start,  3>> end)
-------------
git diff
git diifenec comment used to compare files in differen area
like work station to staing area
stating area to local repo
ws to stating:
>> git diff <file name>
ws to local:
>> git diff HEAD <filename>
stage to last commit :
>> git diff --staged < file name>
--------------
git log --oneline
used to get commit id 
if u want compare specific commit then we can use this comment
>> git diff <commit id> <file name>
stage and specif commit:
git diff --staged <commit id>
diiference b/w rwo different commit:
git diff <commit id 1> <commit id2> file nam
+ >>> added text in the file
- >>> deleted text in the file
compare local repo to remote repo:
git diff master orgin/master
----------------
git rm:
comment used to remove files from ( ws, staing, locel or remote)
git rm <file name>----> ws 
git rm -r <file name> (ws and staging)
git rm --cached <filename> (staging)
----------------------
git checkout
comment used to switching from barnch to brance
git checout master
we can used checkout comment to discard unstaged changes in the tracked files of working directory.
git checkout --<filename>
---------------------
git reset:
to remove changes from staging area
undo chnages from repo level
git reset <file name>
git reset <mode> <commit id>
different mode:
>>--mixed
>>-- soft
>> --hard
--mixed:
defult mode
dicard changes from staging area and local repo. it won't touch working directoy
git reset --mixed <commit id>
if u want to revert then we can do below steps:
git add
git cmmit
--soft:
dit reset --soft <commit id>
discard changes only in local repo
won't touch (ws and staging)
--hard:
its dangeruos comment. it will delete from everwhere
git reset --hard <commit id>
-----------
git branching:
every branching idenpented
git branch <branch name>   ---->create branch
git checkout -b <branch name>   ----> create and swiching brance
all branches are isolated
parallel development will happe without touching the master branch
-----------------------------
git mering:
used to merge the branches
master branch mainted source code
suppose we want add some features in later but we wrote the code for that. so we decide we push that to some new brach without disturbe the master.
in later we will merger the childe branch into matster branch using two methode.
        1. fast-forward merge
        2. three-way merge
1.fast-forward mering:
  in the fast-forwrad mering , we only do changes in the child branchwithout touching master branch, we mergr into master branch afetr completion of changes, in this methode there is no conflicts b/w brnches
  git merge <brnch name>
2.three-way merge:
in the three-way merge, we do changes or developing the code parallely in the master branch as well as child branch
ater creation of new branch, if u do some change in the master branch this is called three-way merge.
merging new branch into master branch , git will craete merge commit.
in this commit new commit will be added automatically into merge commit.
there will be conflicts
this conflicts will be resolved manually
git merge <branch name>
delete branch:
git branch -d <branch name>
----------------------
Git Remote: 
Git remote command helps you to create, delete, and view connections between remote and local. To view the original file of the copied repository, use the git remote command as
Command used: $ git remote
-----------------------
Git Revert:
Git revert command is an undo operation that is carried out if we make any mistakes in the commit. It helps to find out how to reverse changes in the commit and the resultant is added as a new commit.
Git reverse helps in the prevention of losing history from the Git. It is a secure alternative to git reset with concerns about losing work.
--------------
git cherry-pick:
The main function of the cherry-pick command in Git allows to select commits from one branch in a repo and added in the existing branch. 
This process is helpful to undergo undo process if something goes wrong during an operation.
Command used: $git cherry-pick <commit id>
---------------------
git tree:
the main purpose of the git Is-tree command is to record the contents of a tree object.
-----------------------
 What is the difference between Head, Working Tree, and Index in Git?
Head: The Head is the parent of the next commit that is created. It is a pointer to the current branch reference and also a pointer to the last commit on the branch.
Working Tree: The working tree is where your files reside and also you can try changes before committing. It is to record the snapshots of the project.
Index: The index is a staging area between the working directory and repository. It is used to build a set of changes that you want to commit together.
-------------------------
What happens when the .git directory gets deleted?
.git directory is an important element in Git that stores all the reports related to the commits, remote repo address also maintains a record of all the commit history which will help you to retrieve any code whenever needed. 
However, deleting the .git folder won’t delete the files contained in the folder eventually, lose track of your project’s history.  the folder will no longer be included in versioning control. 
----------------------------
 What is Git architecture?
Git is a three-tier architecture and it consists of three layers. They are
Working directory
Staging area
Local repository
--------------------------
What is the use of staging area or indexing in Git?
One can add and remove changes from the staging area. It is considered the real area where git stores the changes.
--------------------
 Write down the command used to create an empty Git repository.
The command used to create an empty Git repository is “git init”. It is used to create a new repository.
--------------------
How git status is different from git diff?
Git Status: Git Status Shows the difference between the working directory and index.
Git Diff: Git Diff Shows the changes between commits and the working directory.
---------------------
How to fix a broken commit?
A broken comment can be fixed using the command “git commit -amend”.
---------------------
List the different Git repository hosting functions.
Different hosting functions on the git repository are
GitHub
GitLab
SourceForge
Bitbucket
Visual studio team
Beanstalk
----------------
What is the main role of command git config?
The Git config command is a command used to check the configuration for your git installation and also maintains the git looks and functions.
Also useful while Installing the email and name of the creator.
Command used: $git config
--------------
How do we revert a commit which is already been pushed?
The steps involved to revert a commit which is already been pushed are
Move to the Git history
Right-click on the commit that you want to revert
Select revert commits
Ensure the commit the change is reviewed
Click on revert
------------
How to recover a deleted branch in Git?
Recover a deleted branch in Git:
On github.com, navigate to the repository of the main page.
Click pull requests under your repository name.
Click on “closed” to see the closed pull requests.
Click the pull request associated with the branch, you want to restore.
Click “Restore branch” at the bottom of the pull request.
--------
Define conflict in Git and how to fix it.
Git Merge Conflict: It is an event that takes place when Git is unable to resolve differences in code between two commits automatically. If the commits are on different lines or branches then git can merge the changes automatically.
Example: If two developers X and Y are working on the same file from the remote repository. And each of them wants to make changes. If X makes some changes and pushes the file back to the remote repository from the local repository. Now, when Y tries to push that file after making changes from his end, he is unable to do so, because the file has already changed to the remote repository.
To avoid this conflict, the Git merge command combines separate branches and resolves any conflicting edits.
Fixing the conflict: 
One has to make necessary changes to resolve the conflicted file by opening it.
After the changes or editing, use the git add a command to stage the new merged content.
Create a new commit with the help of the git commit command.
Git will create a new merge commit to finalize the merge.
----------------------
Git rebase                                                                                    Git merge
Logs are linear in Git rebase which means it won’t            Logs are non-linear which means logs will show all the merging history that occurred. 
show the complete history of merging occurring.  
It is a multi-stage operation.                                It is a one-step operation. 
Git rebase is performed when the main branch is a             Git merge is performed when the main branch is a combined branch. 
particular branch. 
Command used: $git rebase                                      Command used: $git merge
------------------------------
Git                                                            github
Git is software.                                               GitHub is a service. 
Git is a Command-Line interface.                               GitHub is a Graphical User interface. 
Git is Maintained by Linux                                     GitHub is Maintained by Microsoft
No user management feature.                                    User management feature available. 
Git is open-sourced license                                    GitHub includes free and pay-for-use features. 
Git should be installed locally in the system GitHub           GitHub is hosted on the web
-------------------------------
git                                                                        svn
Git is a distributed model                                            SVN is a centralized model
Difficult to learn.                                                   Easy to learn when compared to Git
In Git, the .git directory is created by us.                          In SVN, the .svn directory is created for each folder
Git doesn’t have a good User Interface when compared to SVN           SVN has a good User Interface 
------------------------
Git Fetch
Git fetch command is used to provide information on new changes from the remote repository to the local repository without merging with the existing branch.
Command: git fetch
Git fetch command function is to fetch the new modifications.
Repository data is updated directly keeping the remote repository unmodified.




 













